Second half of the sbt migration tutorial (#93)
scalacenter/scala-3-migration-guide: docs/tutorials/sbt-migration.md

In the project configuration we add:

```scala
scalaVersion = "3.0.0-M1"
crossScalaVersion ++= Seq("2.13.3", "3.0.0-M1")
```

This configuration means:
- The default version is `3.0.0-M1`.
- The `2.13.3`  can be loaded by `++2.13.3`.
- The `3.0.0-M1` can be loaded by `++3.0.0-M1`.

Beware that `reload` will always load the default version.

## 5 - Configure the Scala 3 compiler

Between Scala 2.13 and Scala 3.0, the available compiler options are different:
- Some of the Scala 2.13 options are not supported by the Scala 3 compiler.
- New options are available to enable new features of the Scala 3 compiler.

We basically need two lists of compiler options, one for Scala 2 and another one for Scala 3.

> A comparsion table for compiler options will soon be included in this guide. Stay tuned to [#60](https://github.com/scalacenter/scala-3-migration-guide/issues/60).
> [Contributions welcomed](../contributing.md)

The `isDotty` setting can be used to select the list of options corresponding to the current `scalaVersion`.
Thus a typical `scalacOptions` configuration would look like this:
```scala
// build.sbt
scalacOptions ++= {
  if (isDotty.value) Seq(
    "-encoding",
    "UTF-8",

>     "-feature",

Reviewer: Consider factoring out the common options.

    // "-Xfatal-warnings" will be added after the migration
  ) else Seq(
    "-encoding",
    "UTF-8",
    "-feature",
    "-deprecation",
    "-language:implicitConversions",
    "-Xfatal-warnings",
    "-Wunused:imports,privates,locals",
    "-Wvalue-discard"
  )
}
```

### 5.1 - Migration mode

The Scala 3 compiler has a migration mode that can assist us during the migration.
It is described in details in the [Scala 3 Migration Mode](../scala-3-migration-mode.md) page.

To enable it we can add the `-source:3.0-migration` option:
```scala
// build.sbt
scalacOptions ++= { 
  if (isDotty.value) Seq("-source:3.0-migration")
  else Seq.empty
}
```

> `-Xfatal-warnings` must be deactivated when in the migration mode

## 6 - Solve the Incompatibilities

### 6.1 - Compilation

It is now time to try compiling in Scala 3:

```shell
sbt:example> ++3.0.0-M1
[info] Setting Scala version to 3.0.0-M1 on 1 project.
...
sbt:example> <module> / Test / compile
...
```

> The `<module> / compile` task only compiles the `main` code.
> It is strictly equivalent to `<module> / Compile / compile`.
>
> To run the `main` and the `test` code, use the `<module> / Test / compile` task instead.

> The compiler produces different kind of diagnosis:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler produces different kinds of diagnostics:
```

- Error: Some valid pieces of Scala 2.13 code cannot be compiled anymore.
There are various reasons for those errors, that are given in the [Incompatibility Table](../incompatibilities/table.md).
- Migration Warning: In migration mode, the Scala 3 compiler detects that a valid Scala 2.13 code is not valid anymore.

> It does however compile it, and it will even able to patch the code, when invoked with the `-rewrite` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does however compile it, and it can even automatically patch the code with the `-rewrite` option.
```

- Warning: The Scala 3 compiler can emit more warnings than the Scala 2 compiler.

> For all kind of errors, except for macros, there exists a solution that cross-compiles in Scala 2.13 and Scala 3.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For all kinds of errors, except for macros, there exists a solution that cross-compiles in Scala 2.13 and Scala 3.0.
```

The [Incompatibility Table](../incompatibilities/table.md) will help you to fix them.

> The macros errors can be silented by the `-Xignore-scala2-macros` option.

> After fixing an incompatibility, you are advise to go back to Scala 2.13 to validate the solution against the tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After fixing an incompatibility, you are advised to go back to Scala 2.13 to validate the solution against the tests.
```

```shell
sbt:example> ++2.13.3
[info] Setting Scala version to 2.13.3 on 1 project.
...
sbt:example> <module> / test
...
[success]
```

Consider committing your changes regularly.

> Once you got no more errors you can ask the compiler to patch the migration warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you get no more errors, you can ask the compiler to patch the migration warnings.
```

Add the `-rewrite` compiler option, and compile one more time:

```shell
sbt:example> ++3.0.0-M1
[info] Setting Scala version to 3.0.0-M1 on 1 project.
...
sbt:example> set <module> / scalacOptions += "-rewrite"
[info] Defining <module> / scalacOptions
...
sbt:example> <module> / Test / compile
...
[info] [patched file /example/src/main/scala/app/Main.scala]
[warn] two warnings found
[success]
```

### 6.2 - Macro Re-implementation

Scala 2 macros must be re-implemented in Scala 3.
You can learn about the new Scala 3 metaprogramming features in the [Metaprogramming in Scala 3](../macros/metaprogramming.md) page.

> If you want to maintain the compatibility to Scala 2 you can follow the tutorial on [Porting a Macro Library](../macros/migration-tutorial.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to maintain compatibility with Scala 2, you can follow the tutorial on [Porting a Macro Library](../macros/migration-tutorial.md).
```

> ### 6.3 - Run Time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6.3 - Run-Time Behavior
```

> On rare occasions, different implicit values could possibly be resolved and alter the runtime behavior of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On rare occasions, different implicit values can be resolved, altering the run-time behavior of the program.
```

Good tests are the only guarantee to prevent such bugs from going unnoticed.

## 7 - Finalize the migration

In the `build.sbt` remove the `-source:3.0-migration` configuration.

> You can also add the `-Xfatal-warnings` if you want to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add `-Xfatal-warnings` if you want to.
```

Reload sbt and try to compile and test all projects.

```shell
sbt:example> reload
...
sbt:example> test
...
[success]
```

Congratulations! You have successfully ported a module to Scala 3.

You can choose to keep the Scala 2.13 settings as a precaution, or you can remove the `crossScalaVersion` setting and the Scala 2.13 `scalacOptions`.

> Even if you drop the Scala 2.13 compilation in this module, others Scala 2.13 modules will still be able to depend on it by using the `-Ytasty-reader`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if you drop the Scala 2.13 compilation in this module, other Scala 2.13 modules will still be able to depend on it by using the `-Ytasty-reader`.
```

> > `-Ytasty-reader` is yet to be released in Scala `2.13.4`.

Reviewer 2: I should add that `2.13.4` will require scala `3.0.0-M1` so won't work for `0.27.0-RC1`

Author: Right but I should soon be able to upgrade to Scala `3.0.0-M1`. And `2.13.4` is not even released yet.

Reviewer 2: true - should be smooth transition

> 
> The Tasty reader compatible features will soon be listed in this guide.
> Stay tuned to [#77](https://github.com/scalacenter/scala-3-migration-guide/issues/77).

Here ends our walk through the migration of a Scala module. 

> The process can be repeated for each modules, until the project is fully migrated to Scala 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process can be repeated for each module, until the project is fully migrated to Scala 3.
```
